Welcome back in order for us to manipulate the this keyword.
There are three really important methods that you see a lot especially for senior javascript developer
interviews.
That is call apply and bind and we saw bind in the previous video.
So let's talk about them and see how they can be used.
The first thing we're going to talk about is actually call and apply and they look a lot more intimidating
than they actually are because underneath the hood all functions use call when invoking a function.
Let me show you what I mean.
If I do function a here and inside of here I console dialog Hi if I do a dot call and I run this I get
high underneath the hood in JavaScript when I do a bracket bracket to invoke the function all functions
when created have this property called call that allows us to call the function.
So this is just a shorthand that we can use.
How cool is that.
What if we do apply here.
If I run this same thing call then apply do the same thing for now at least.
But let's see how call in apply can be useful besides just calling functions.
Let's say that we're creating a game and this game has a wizard.
Obviously all games do.
And this wizard has a name of Merlin obviously and Merlin has a health of a 100 go for Merlin.
He's nice and healthy and obviously because Merlin is a wizard he has a heal function and this he'll
function can make this dot health.
Again we're referring to a property of an object to equal 100.
That's an awesome power so that any time I do wizard dot he'll.
Well let's return something here so we can actually see what's happening.
I get a hundred.
That's fantastic.
If his health goes to 50.
Well as long as we run he'll we're all good.
It's still gonna be 100 OK but in the game we need more than just one character right.
Let's add another character and this time around I'm going to I'd add an archer and this Archer name
will be all Robin Hood obviously and health for Robin Hood is only thirty I know he's not doing too
well he needs he need some healing power we just created this piece of code and Robin Hood doesn't really
do much has a name and health but would it be nice if we're able to borrow a function from the Wizard
and he'll Archer and I know I'm using a silly example here especially for an advanced course.
But I hope you can see the power of being able to borrow methods of other objects so that we keep our
code dry.
Right.
We don't repeat ourself.
We don't add to memory.
We have one place where the method is in one place where we can change it.
This is going to create a lot less bugs in our code.
So how can we borrow the heal method for the arching it's not part of the same object so we can't just
use this dot hill right.
We can't really just do this dot feel because while this object doesn't have it and we don't want to
copy and paste the code instead we can borrow it and we can use coal and apply to borrow methods.
So let's see how we can do that I can simply say wizard dot heal.
So that is the method I want to use and instead of calling it like we have before I use dot call which
if I run this I'll just get with your tell.
But in here I'm going to use call and then the first parameter of call will be what this should be bound
to.
And if I scroll over here you can see that call calls a method of an object substituting another object
from the current object very very confusing.
But essentially it's saying hey call heal instead of using wizard to call he'll use Archer to call heel
and we're just going to borrow this heel from the wizard so that if I run this well we don't know what
happens yet.
But licious console dot log Archer and console lot log Archer again.
So this is one and this is to if I run this you see that at the beginning my Archer only had health
of 30 but after we used Merlin's heel power and used it on Archer our health went back up to 100.
How cool is that and Cole actually has other parameters that it can receive it can receive arguments
so that we can give Archer or the heel method parameters.
So for example let's say the heel method took number one and number two.
And what this does is well we add no one plus number two so whatever two numbers we give it adds to
our current health let's make this a little bit bigger.
They're young.
That's a lot cleaner I can now call Archer with the parameters.
So what are the parameters going to be.
I'm going to give Archer 50 health plus let's do 30 health so that if I run this I have one hundred
and ten now because to my current 30 health I've added 50 which is 80 and then 30 which is one hundred
and ten we'll get that one hundred and ten health.
That's pretty good.
That's all coal is really useful for.
I mean it is quite useful isn't it.
And when it comes to apply.
Like I said it does the same thing.
The only difference between call and apply is that instead of call that just takes parameters parameters
parameters with apply.
It takes an array of parameters so that if I do this it's still going to work.
If I change this to let's say 100.
Look at that 160 help.
That's pretty cool so choosing which one to use call or apply just depends on which one is easier to
pass he arguments and just decide whether it's easier to pass array of parameters or comma separated
list of arguments.
So next time you're thinking hmm I'm really jealous of that object that method that that object has.
Wouldn't it be nice if I can just copy it.
Well does that function include the this keyword so that it can be dynamic cool then you can use call
or apply on it.
That's your test.
All right that's enough for calling apply.
But what about the other one that I was talking about bind.
What happens if I use bind.
Well similar to call and apply bind allows us to use what we have here.
You see bind unlike call and apply that immediately runs a function bind returns a new function with
a certain context and parameters.
And it's usually used when we want a function to be called later on with a certain type of context or
a certain type of this keyword.
Let's see how that would work in order to use bind.
We would do bind and bind accepts just like call parameters.
But if I run this now it doesn't work.
Mike Archer Robin Hood didn't get healed.
And that's because unlike calling apply it doesn't run the function it returns a function so that if
I added to a variable let's say heal Archer so that we can use this function later on we can now run
heal Archer
and if we click Run look at that our Archer is healed so bind allows us to store the this keyword or
this function borrowing for later use and you might have noticed something here bind is like a Band-Aid
to fix this idea of a dynamically scoped this keyword that ruins our entire lexical scoping discussion
that we've had remember in the previous video how we talked about this solution when we didn't have
the arrow function we can use bind I hope that makes sense now we were able to store the value of this
which was object so that we can use it later so that another function instead of giving us this weird
dynamically scoped this keyword we're able to bind another function to use the this keyword that is
the object so to review called then apply when are they useful.
Well call in reply are useful for borrowing methods from an object while bind is useful for us to call
functions later on with a certain context or certain this keyword and by the way there's one more interesting
use of mind let's explore that in the next video.